 
1. Persecutory Delusions
Definition: belief that one is going to be harmed, harassed, and so forth by an individual, 
organization, or other group
*	Example: "The FBI is watching me through my phone and trying to poison my 
food."
 
2. Referential Delusions
Definition: belief that certain gestures, comments, environmental cues, and so forth are 
directed at oneself
*	Example: "The news anchor on TV is sending me secret messages through hand 
gestures."
 
3. Grandiose Delusions
Definition: Belief that one has exceptional abilities, wealth, or fame.
*	Example: "I have been chosen by God to bring peace to the world. I can heal 
people with my thoughts."
 
4. Erotomanic Delusions
Definition: an individual believes falsely that another person is in love with him or her
*	Example: " The CEO of the company I¡¯ve never met is in love with me and sends 
me signs through advertisements."
 
5. Nihilistic Delusions
Definition: Belief that a major catastrophe will occur, or that one or the world no longer 
exists.
*	Example 1: "The universe is collapsing into nothingness and cannot be stopped"
*	Example 2: "My organs have stopped functioning. I am already dead."
 
6. Somatic Delusions
Definition: Focused on bodily functions or sensations; belief that something is wrong 
with one's body.
*	Example: "There are worms crawling under my skin, but the doctors refuse to 
see them."
 
7. Jealous Delusions
Definition: Belief that one¡¯s romantic partner is unfaithful without any real proof.
*	Example: "I know my wife is having an affair because she¡¯s been spending more 
time at work, even though she brings home her work emails."
 
8. Bizarre Delusions
Definition: Clearly implausible, not understandable, and not derived from ordinary life 
experiences.
*	Example: "Aliens have removed my internal organs and replaced them with 
mechanical devices while I was sleeping."
 
9. Mixed Type
Definition: No one type of delusion predominates; elements of multiple categories are 
present.
*	Example: "I am a famous singer, and the government is trying to silence me 
because the president is in love with me."
 
10. Unspecified Type
Definition: The delusional belief doesn¡¯t clearly fit into the standard categories.
*	Example: "The clouds are shaped a certain way to communicate with me about 
my destiny."

